---
title: Gallery
date: '2010-02-15'
tags: []
author: Ben Simonds
alias: blog/posts/2010-02-15-gallery

---

[gallery type="square" link="file" ids="1598,1602,1599,1388,1238,1240,1242,1234,1233,1232,1230,1158,981,962,989,1000,920,948,887,885,893,894,682,414,379,378,377"] 

You can my previous gallery on [Flickr.](http://www.flickr.com/photos/bensimonds/sets/72157625256872343/show/)





# Comments


bensimonds (Mar 20, 2010)
> Thanks Caique. I've been using blender for around five years now.

Caique Jorge (Mar 20, 2010)
> Hey Ben,
> Great Work!
> Pretty well detailed models.. realy good
> Since when do you work with blender ?(sorry for my bad english..)

Jens (May 13, 2010)
> Hi Ben,
> 
> you did a great work with the pirate and the 19th century guy with letter. Got one question about. Are these textures final renders, or did you help with Gimp afterwards. And, how much poly's did you use for the "Guy with letter"?

bensimonds (May 13, 2010)
> Both of these were done almost entirely in blender - as per the rules of the competition, though they used the compositor a lot for post production. The only thing done in gimp were the textures of course, and adding stamps to the final render with my name and copyright information etc. on. Polycounts were pretty high, probably in the hundreds of thousands for both, if not up into the millions for the pirate which had more sculpted detail.

Mindcare (Jun 02, 2010)
> Mr. Ben,
> To be candid, you've got everything i need in 3D, and i have a big program i would like to use in 3D animation movies. I'm very far from modeling and textured and i really don't know the kind of help i need. But i need screen shot tut with step by step how to model a portrait with hair like you model that Pirate Captain. 
> 
> Mr. Ben, i'm not a pro in 3D and besides i'm learning by myself and i would love to peddle my little probs to you but i don't know if you'll have enough time to help me out. Please if i could find favor from you, kindly let me know so that i will send you my difficulties in using 3D blender.
> Thanks a lot

bensimonds (Jun 02, 2010)
> Try hanging out on the Blenderartists.org forums. Lots of helpful people there. It's how I got started.

dirtyhugg (May 21, 2011)
> Grate Job!
> 
> I'm studying Digital Animation, I hope someday have your level
> 
> 
> Do you work only in ZBrush??

Kevin (Nov 03, 2010)
> Hi Ben. I'd love to see your camera setup for that isometric home render.
> 
> Nice piece. Cheers, Kevin

bensimonds (Nov 04, 2010)
> Camera setup is pretty simple. Just an ortho camera rotated 45 degrees to the global z axis and tilted down to give the isometric effect (I cant remember the exact angle downwards but it's easy to see when you've got it as all the lines fall into alignment in that isometric sort of way).

Ben Simonds (Apr 03, 2011)
> I think I worked on the pirate on and off for a month or so. I do the odd anmation test from time to time too.

Sable (May 18, 2011)
> Thanks alot - your answer solved all my problems after several days strggluing

Kate (Apr 03, 2011)
> Hey, Ben!
> Your works are amazing!
> How much time did you spend to do so life pirate? Will you try to animate your models?
> P.S. Sorry for my english.
> Thank you!
