---
title: "Blending Life\_2010"
date: '2010-02-24'
tags:
- big projects
- blender
- blending life
- making of
- pirate
- portrait
- sss
- textures
author: Ben Simonds
markdown:
  gfm: false
alias: blog/posts/2010-02-24-blending-life-2010

---

None




# Comments


hperigo (Feb 25, 2010)
> awesome work man!
> 
> I only have one question, for the specular reflections, did you use glossy reflections or a Cook-Torrance shader?
> 
> see ya!

Jpmon1 (Mar 02, 2010)
> Awesome Job! I would say that the clothes are just a bit too "clean and neat" in comparison to the hat and what one would think about a pirate.
> Anyway, keep up the great work!

c001os (Feb 27, 2010)
> Awesome work! So much inspiration for me! Congratulation! Please post more tuttorial!

Martin (Mar 04, 2010)
> Thank for this very nice tutorial!

Sim Pern Chong (Mar 05, 2010)
> Wow... thanks for sharing with us the process..

bensimonds (Feb 25, 2010)
> @hperigo The reflections are a mix of glosssy and phong reflections. Take a look at the tutorials I linked for the skin shader - my approach is very similar.

Art-tech &raquo; Modellare un pirata in Blender (Mar 04, 2010)
> [...] Ottimo tutorial su come modellare un pirata in 3D con il programma BLENDER! Da dare un&#8217;occhiata! http://bensimonds.wordpress.com/2010/02/24/blending-life-2010/ [...]

sebih (Mar 04, 2010)
> Great work. One of the best hairstyles I've seen so far done with Blender. Only the teeth have more SSS, teeth are more transparent than one would expect.
> More SSS on teeth + lighter teeth + some color-variations on teeth (you know, all that rum) &gt;&gt; Where did you take that photo? ;)

Wow (Mar 04, 2010)
> You know, what I think is kind of cool about blog entries like this one is that I can review them in one word:
> 
> WOW!!!!
> 
> That's really REALLY awesome!!! (now, that actually were five words, but who cares ;-)
> 
> Great stuff, please keep up!
> And please apologize for my English, I'm from Austria.

bensimonds (Apr 12, 2010)
> I suggest you try Maqs' thread. That's where you find the best info as well as downloads for the shader.

artao (Mar 06, 2010)
> I'm wondering what kind of render times you were getting at what final resolution?
> Looks great, I especially like your skin shader. VERY nice!!  :D
> I would also comment that the pirate WITH hair looks more cuddly than the pirate without.
> Blend On!!!

bensimonds (Mar 07, 2010)
> Renders were taking around 8hrs by the end. That's what you get for cranking up the raytracing and multiple SSS passes I suppose.

EllriNidhogg (Apr 11, 2010)
> The skin multi ssh tutorial you list seems to no longer have pictures and the guy who wrote it refers purely to the pictures that no longer exist....  You only show the ssh values for one material can we see the materials from the others to help with the process?

johnny (Mar 11, 2010)
> Im curious to know how you textured the clothing, the soft lighting looks very good and the threadlike texture is still defined.

bensimonds (Mar 11, 2010)
> The clothing is textured using first a seamless fabric texture set to overlay over the base colour of the cloth, then a dirt layer (again set to overlay if I remember rightly) over that.

Mike Stramba (Mar 22, 2010)
> Hi Ben,
> 
> Nice tutorial.
> 
> &gt;8 hrs
> 
> For what resolution?
> 
> What are your machine specs?
> 
> Mike

bensimonds (Mar 23, 2010)
> The final render was about 3 passes at 2480x3508. I'm on a quad core 2.3Ghz machine with 4G of RAM.

Sithgamer (Mar 24, 2010)
> Most pirates clothing, back in the day, was fairly clean.  The hat is what they keep for a while.  So the hat and the strap should both we worn out and the clothing fairly clean.   Pluss look at the pirates hair!  He seems to be a clean fellow.  I have friends with worse hair than that.

Chameleongirl (Mar 25, 2010)
> Great tutorial!
> I'm very curious about how you made the braids with the particle system; I've been trying to find somewhere with a good way to make braids that aren't modeled, but no luck so far... if you're not too busy, would you maybe add that to the tutorial? It would be greatly appreciated!
> Anyway, I love the pirate! Awesome work, keep it up!

bensimonds (Mar 25, 2010)
> Braids were done using child particles. Each braid is just a single particle, with children set to braid under the kink/branch settings in the particle settings panel.

Wing-it (Apr 22, 2010)
> Awesome render! I'm working on a self portrait right now and this has all been a big help, especially with the texturing!
> Quick question though: how do you keep the unscattered diffuse "overwriting" the subdermal and epidermal textures? I have those two done and they look pretty good when the unscattered layer is turned off, but when it's turned on it's color washes out the other two layers. I would turn off the layer but I'm assuming I need it for the bump map. 
> Sorry to bother you with this. I tried maq's thread (and a bunch of other ones at blenderartists) and couldn't find an explanation, and the download for the shader is no longer working.
> Thanks for posting such a helpful tutorial!

bensimonds (Apr 22, 2010)
> I've uploaded a <a href="http://www.blendswap.com/materials/bens-three-layer-sss/" rel="nofollow">blend</a> with a base for the material to blendswap.com, hopefully people will find this useful.
> 
> @Wing-it: As far as the unscatter diffuse layer is concerned, all the layers apart from the subdermal and backscatter nodes should receive a bumpmap/normal map. And to tone down the degree of effect the unscatter diffuse layer has over the shading, simply turn down the mix amount in the node editor for that node.

Wing-it (Apr 23, 2010)
> Thanks alot! That's exactly what I needed to know!

edi (May 13, 2010)
> Hello Ben.
> 
> Your work is absolutely amazing (in my opinion one of the best entries of BL2). Thank you very much for this insight.

Edward (Sep 24, 2011)
> Hello,
> 
> Could the same or similar node setup be used in Luxrender or eventually the new Cycles render for Blender? I haven't seen any tuts using Lux to create skin shaders. I like using composite and material nodes with Blender internal, but it seems there is a new move towards physically based shaders. It's all fine with me as long as I understand what I'm doing and my art looks outstanding. Thanks.

Ben Simonds (Sep 26, 2011)
> I'm not sure about luxrender as I'm not a big user of it, but definitely once cycles has an SSS shader implemented, the node based nature of the materials should lend itself quite well to a layered shader like this.

Ben Simonds (Sep 27, 2012)
> It could be a number of things. Try playing with the scale of the SSS effect if your material looks to waxy, or maybe adjust the specular highlights if it looks to shiny.

DeNapes (Sep 24, 2012)
> Hello Ben i tried to do my own head textured following your tutorial (Three layer SSS in Blender Demystified) but my head looked like it was made ​​of plastic skin, i put the textures (epidermal,subdermal,specular,bump) very similar like yours, I copy the nodesetup, I put the SSS settings like in the tutorial but the head was ugly.
> I wait for responses
> awesome result, Congratulations.
> 
> david@inavas.com

The Production Pipeline &#8211; Isaac&#039;s Blog (Jun 22, 2018)
> [&#8230;] Different lighting and moods [&#8230;]
