---
title: Frog
date: '2010-08-21'
tags:
- bge.
- blender
- blender game engine
- common european frog
- frog
- quick projects
- sculpt
- texture paint
- texturing
- toad
author: Ben Simonds
markdown:
  gfm: false
alias: blog/posts/2010-08-21-frog

---

None




# Comments


bensimonds (Sep 13, 2010)
> Blender does not yet have proper, paintable, editable masks for edit mode, but UV textures can be used to similar effect, albeit not quite so easily. In the  project paint buttons panel you'll find the "stencil" and "clone layer" buttons, which allow you to use different UV layers as masks or cloning sources when painting.

Martin Lubich (Sep 13, 2010)
> Thanks Ben.
> 
> I know the clone and stencil techniques. 
> From your post I was under the impression that there might exist a magic, hidden mask feature somewhere in the actual blender svn :)

bensimonds (Sep 13, 2010)
> Unfortunately not to my knowledge. Though I do believe some of the GSoC stuff is covering that. It's just a matter of time before it appears in trunk hopefully.

Martin Lubich (Sep 13, 2010)
> Thats a very neat little frog you have here. Even more so with only using the BGE !
> It shows what can be done with proper texturing.
> 
> One question regarding your post: You mentioning using photos for masks. Does blender now have masks in texture paint mode ? Or have I misunderstood something here.
> 
> How was your workflow experience with texture painting ? I miss quite a lot features in blenders current implementation like a good brush engine, color palettes ( at least the ones last used), more/better blending modes and not to mention layers ;)

bensimonds (Aug 22, 2010)
> Thanks. I'm running on a quad core 2.3GHz, 4G ram, Geforce 9800 GT. Oh and he's modelled after the common European frog, so probably not the hallucinogenic kind!

Alejandro Soto (Aug 22, 2010)
> Your little frog it's awesome! All in Blender!!
> What are the specs of your pc, to do the sculpt?
> 
> PD: If i touch the little frog am I going to finish seeing crazy things?

Reyn (Aug 22, 2010)
> I was about to comment about the aliased look esp. on the shadows BUT reading further, I noticed it was rendered with BGE.  Whew! This is one sweet piece you got here, Ben! Really impressive.
> 
> -Reyn
